# Environment Entities

- Source: https://www.cryengine.com/docs/static/engines/cryengine-5/categories/23756816/pages/29796935
- Page ID: 29796935
- Breadcrumb: Editor Tools > Level Editor Tab > Create Object > Legacy Entities > Environment Entities
- Parent: Legacy Entities

## Content

##
Overview

Environment entities can be used to give more immersion and realism to levels. Things such as Rain, Lightning, Tornadoes, Ripple Generators and others can be used.

##
Door Panel / Supply

There are currently now 2 optimizations in place for the flash materials used by DoorPanel entity class.

##
Using with layer switching

All door panels / supply containers MUST be placed inside their own layers and will automatically free memory when layer is deactivated.

Material sharing (memory cost becomes 1/2 for 2 door panels placed on both sides of a door)
This is mainly used for the case where there are 2 door panels on both sides of a door which perform the same function. You can place the 2 door panels, and then add an Entity Link to the door panel which will share the first panels' screen.

Only thing else that needs to be done is to notify hack complete on the both door panels from the other panel.

##
Parameters

Parameter

 |
Description

 |

**
Destroyable
**

 |
 |

**
DestroyedExplosionType
**

 |
 |

**
DoorPanelState
**

 |
 |

**
Model
**

 |
 |

**
ModelDestroyed
**

 |
 |

**
ScanFailureTimeDelay
**

 |
 |

**
ScanSuccessTimeDelay
**

 |
 |

**
Usable
**

 |
 |

**
UsableOnlyOnce
**

 |
 |

**
UseMessage
**

 |
 |

**
VisibleFlashDistance
**

 |
 |

**
LookupName
**

 |
 |

**
Scannable
**

 |
 |

##
Setup

Here's directions step by step:

-
Select Entity Links area on Entity:

-
Select Pick Target and click on Door Panel you want to share the screen to:

-
Rename link to ShareScreen:

-
Connect Hack Success:

Congratulations, you've just saved half the memory!

##
LightningArc

See
[/docs/static/engines/cryengine-3/categories/1114113/pages/1048728](
Lightning Arc
)
 for more information.

##
MineField

Parameter
 |
Description
 |

**
Usable
**
 |

 |

**
UseMessage
**
 |

 |

**
LookupName
**
 |

 |

**
Scannable
**
 |

 |

##
Rain

There are two main methods of achieving rain within CRYENGINE. The Rain Entity was introduced in version 3.3 and has been updated with several new features in 3.5. This entity has the advantage of handling object occlusion and applying a wet effect to all affected areas of the world.

Alternatively, if you want more control over the visual look of the rain in the world then it is still possible to add rain to the world using a particle effect with the correct configuration.

##
Rain Entity

The Rain entity is found under the Environment folder in the Entity Rollup Bar.

Property

 |
Description

 |

**
UmbrellaRadius
**

 |
**
DEPRECATED -
**
 Can be used to create an umbrella around the player/camera shielding them from the rain.

 |

**
RainDropsSpeed
**

 |
Set the speed at which the rain drops travel.

 |

**
RainDropsLighting
**

 |
Set the brightness or backlighting of the rain drops.

 |

**
RainDropsAmount
**

 |
Set the amount of rain drops that can be seen in the air.

 |

**
Radius
**

 |
Set the radius, or coverage area, of the rain effect.

 |

**
PuddlesRippleAmount
**

 |
Set the strength and frequency of the puddles generated by the rain (offset PuddlesAmount).

 |

**
PuddlesMaskAmount
**

 |
Set the strength of the puddle mask to balance different puddle results.

 |

**
PuddlesAmount
**

 |
Set the strength (depth and brightness) of puddles generated by the rain.

 |

**
MistHeight
**

 |
**
DEPRECATED -
**
 Set the maximum height at which mist can appear on distant surfaces.

 |

**
MistAmount
**

 |
**
DEPRECATED -
**
 Set the amount of mist that appears on surfaces (distant, subtle effect).

 |

**
IgnoreVisareas
**

 |
Continue to render rain when player is inside a visarea.

 |

**
FakeReflectionsAmount
**

 |
**
DEPRECATED -
**
 Set the amount of reflection that is applied to the surfaces in the world.

 |

**
FakeGlossiness
**

 |
**
DEPRECATED -
**
 Set the amount of glossiness/wetness that is applied to the surfaces in the world.

 |

**
Enabled
**

 |
Set this to true/false to turn the rain effect on/off.

 |

**
DisableOcclusion
**

 |
Don't check if object should be occluded from rain (is under cover).

 |

**
Color
**

 |
**
DEPRECATED -
**
 This sets the color of the rain effect.

 |

**
Amount
**

 |
Set the overall amount of the rain entity's various effects.

 |

##
Examples

 |
 |

PuddlesMaskAmount = 0
 |
PuddlesMaskAmount = 1
 |

 |
 |

PuddlesRippleAmount = 2
 |
PuddlesRippleAmount = 100
 |

 |
 |

DisableOcclusion = False
 |
DisableOcclusion = True
 |

 |
 |

SplashesAmount = 1.3
 |
SplashesAmount = 1000
 |

 |
 |

MistAmount = 3
 |
MistAmount = 1000 (background rocks)
 |

##
Rain Particle Effects

Drag and drop the ParticleEffect entity into your level from the Particle tab of the
[/docs/static/engines/cryengine-5/categories/23756816/pages/36869094](
DataBase View
)
:
**
weather.Rain.space_loop
**

It is not advised to drag a particle entity from the RollupBar as Particle emitters need the Y axis to face up. Dragging and dropping directly from the Particle Editor has Y up as default.
The settings for how the particle functions can be adjusted via its property settings on the Particle tab of the DataBase View.

Adjust the Count, Emitter Life Time, Spawn Delay and other properties to adjust the size and speed of the rain particles.

If you wish to limit rain to certain areas of your level, simply trigger the Particle Effect via Flow Graph and an area trigger so that when the player enters/leaves an area, it enables/disables the particle.

##
Shake

Earthquakes or screen shakes are activated using the Shake entity. Drag and drop the shake entity into your level (the entity itself is visible only in editing mode).

The Shake entity is enabled or disabled via Flow Graph. Simple add the entity to a graph then trigger enable/disable.

**
Parameter
**
 |
**
Description
**
 |

**
Shake
**
 |
Specifies the amount of shaking.
 |

**
Radius
**
 |
Specifies the radius around the entity in which the shake effect should happen.
 |

##
SmartMine

Parameter
 |
Description
 |

**
Damage
**
 |

 |

**
DetonationRadius
**
 |

 |

**
ExplosionType
**
 |

 |

**
Faction
**
 |
See
[/docs/static/engines/cryengine-5/categories/23756816/pages/29796924](
AI Entities
)
 for more information.
 |

**
MaterialArmed
**
 |

 |

**
MaterialDisarmed
**
 |

 |

**
Model
**
 |

 |

**
TriggerToDetonateDelay
**
 |

 |

**
SmartMineType
**
 |

 |

**
Diffuse
**
 |

 |

**
DiffuseMultiplier
**
 |

 |

**
HDRDynamic
**
 |

 |

**
SpecularMultiplier
**
 |

 |

**
JumpImpulse
**
 |

 |

**
Static
**
 |

 |

**
vTriggerBox XYZ
**
 |

 |

##
Tornado

You can add Tornadoes into your level via the Tornado entity. Simple drag the Tornado entity into the level.

In the Tornado properties panel, you can change the wander speed to make it move faster around.

**
Property
**

 |
**
Description
**

 |

**
AttractionImpulse
**

 |
Specifies the attraction impulse.

 |

**
CloudHeight
**

 |
Specifies the height of the cloud above the tornado.

 |

**
FunnelEffect
**

 |
Here a particle effect can be specified.

 |

**
Radius
**

 |
The influence radius of the tornado.

 |

**
SpinImpulse
**

 |
Specifies the spin speed that effects objects that are close to the tornado

 |

**
UpImpulse
**

 |
Specifies the pushing up speed that effects objects that are close to the tornado.

 |

**
WanderSpeed
**

 |
The tornadoes moving speed can be specified here.

 |

It is also possible to setup a Flow Graph where you can control the path of the tornado using tag points and the
[/docs/static/engines/cryengine-5/categories/23756816/pages/29450618](
MoveEntityTo
)
 node.

##
VicinityDependentObjectMover

This entity allows simple control over moving an object depending on how close the player is to it.

This was used in the Crysis 3 Tutorial level to control the hexagon objects raising/lowering, depending on the players location.

 |
 |
 |

Close - All Objects Raised
 |
Mid - Some Objects Remain Raised
 |
Far - All Objects Lowered
 |

Parameter

 |
Description

 |

**
AreaTriggerRange
**

 |
Maximum range around the entity which will detect the player entering.

 |

**
BackAreaTriggerRange
**

 |
Maximum range around the entity which will detect the player leaving.

 |

**
DisableAreaTriggerOnMoveComplete
**

 |
Disables the area trigger function once the moving of the object is complete. Basically a "use once" option.

 |

**
ForceMoveCompleteDistance
**

 |
Closest distance the player can be from the entity before it will override the move sequence and force it to quickly finish.

This prevents players from "beating" the object with speed.

 |

**
Model
**

 |
Sets the model for the entity.

 |

**
MoveBackSpeed
**

 |
Speed at which the object will be moved when player leaves the area trigger.

 |

**
MoveToDistance
**

 |
Total distance of which to move the object. A value of 10 will move the object 10m up on the Z axis.

 |

**
MoveToSpeed
**

 |
Speed at which the object will be moved when player enters the area trigger.

 |

**
UseAreaTrigger
**

 |
Use the built-in area trigger. Alternatively, this can be controlled by Flow Graph.

 |

##
WaterRipplesGenerator

Allows to spawn ripples on water surfaces. It is especially useful for cutscenes when non-physicalized entities are moving through a body of water.

The WaterRipplesGenerator entity can be found in
**
Create Object → Legacy Entities → Environment
**
.

Limitations

-
The WaterRipplesGenerator only works with WaterVolumes, it doesn't work with the ocean surface.

-
All WaterVolumes below and above the WaterRipplesGenerator will be affected.

##
WaterRipplesGenerator Properties

**
Property
**

 |
**
Description
**

 |

**
Enabled
**

 |
Turns the entity on/off.

 |

**
Scale
**

 |
Size of the ripple effect.

 |

**
Strength
**

 |
Strength of the ripple effect. Also affects size.

The most noticeable changes happen in the range from 0 to 1.

 |

**
RandomFreq
**

 |
Randomly changes the frequency of the ripple effect. The value specified is the maximum frequency that will occurr.

 |

**
RandomOffsetX
**

 |
Randomly spawns ripples at an offset position relative to the entity. This value sets the maximum offset on the X axis (local coordinate system).

Only works if
**
AutoSpawn
**
 is enabled.

 |

**
RandomOffsetY
**

 |
Same as RandomOffsetX, but for the Y axis (local coordinate system). Only works if
**
AutoSpawn
**
 is enabled.

 |

**
RandomScale
**

 |
Randomly sets the scale of the ripple effect. The value specified is the maximum scale that can be set.

 |

**
RandomStrength
**

 |
Same as RandomScale, but for the Strength value.

 |

**
AutoSpawn
**

 |
If enabled, water ripples will be spawned regularly even if the entity doesn't move.

The spawn interval is determined by the Frequency and RandomFreq properties.

 |

**
Frequency
**

 |
Sets the interval for
**
AutoSpawn
**
 in seconds.

 |

**
SpawnOnMovement
**

 |
If enabled, ripples will be spawned when the entity moves.

 |

##
Examples

##
Spawn On Movement

WaterRipplesGenerator entity linked to a character bone, set to use
**
SpawnOnMovement
**
:

Entity animated in a Track View sequence, set to use
**
SpawnOnMovement
**
:

##
Randomized AutoSpawn

**
AutoSpawn
**
 set to 'true',
**
RandomOffsetX
**
 and
**
RandomOffsetY
**
 set to '3'.

In this example the WaterRipplesGenerator is used to enhance the sprinkler particle effects in the room:

For comparison: The same room again with only the particles and without the WaterRipplesGenerator entity:

[#door-panel-supply](
Door Panel / Supply
)
[#parameters](
Parameters
)
[#setup](
Setup
)
[#lightningarc](
LightningArc
)
[#minefield](
MineField
)
[#rain](
Rain
)
[#rain-entity](
Rain Entity
)
[#rain-particle-effects](
Rain Particle Effects
)
[#shake](
Shake
)
[#smartmine](
SmartMine
)
[#tornado](
Tornado
)
[#vicinitydependentobjectmover](
VicinityDependentObjectMover
)
[#waterripplesgenerator](
WaterRipplesGenerator
)
[#examples](
Examples
)
