# WaterVolume Shader

- Source: https://www.cryengine.com/docs/static/engines/cryengine-5/categories/23756816/pages/29449415
- Page ID: 29449415
- Breadcrumb: Graphics & Rendering > Shaders > Shaders in CRYENGINE > Shader Reference > WaterVolume Shader
- Parent: Shader Reference

## Content

##
Overview

In CRYENGINE 3.5 and beyond, the Watervolume Shader is a dedicated shader designed to be used just on Water Volume objects. In earlier versions of CRYENGINE, it was part of the main Water Shader as a shader parameter.

##
Shader Params

A few notes about the Watervolume shader:

-
The Detail normals texture is not an external texture, rather a texture generated by the engine, through code.

-
The Decal options will not appear in the Shader Params unless a texture is put into the Decal slot to activate it. The Decal Bumpmap slot will also appear after this.

-
Flow map textures go in the Detail texture slot.
Parameter

 |
Description

 |
Shader Gen Requirement

 |

**
Decal falloff
**

 |
Controls the falloff amount for decal texture.

 |
Decal texture slot use

 |

**
Decal strength
**

 |
Set the strength of the decal texture.

 |
Decal texture slot use

 |

**
Decal tiling
**

 |
Tiling of the decal layer.

 |
Decal texture slot use

 |

**
Detail normals scale
**

 |
Scale the detail bump normals intensity.

 |
Default

 |

**
Detail tiling
**

 |
Set detail bump tilling.

 |
Default

 |

**
Env projection scale
**

 |
Controls the projection scale, or the tiling, of the specified environment map.

 |
Default

 |

**
Env reflection amount
**

 |
Controls the reflection amount of the environment map. Can be offset with Specular Color.

 |
Default

 |

**
Flow map scale
**

 |
Control the scale, or tiling, of the flow map texture.

 |
Water flow map

 |

**
Flow offset strength
**

 |
Strength of flow animation offset map.

 |
Water flow map

 |

**
Flow offset tiling
**

 |
Tiling scale for flow animation offset map.

 |
Water flow map

 |

**
Flow speed
**

 |
Specify the speed of the flow effect.

 |
Water flow

 |

**
Foam amount
**

 |
Control the amount of foam placed on the water surface.

 |
Foam

 |

**
Foam soft intersection
**

 |
Controls how the foam behaves from contact areas.

Foam forms around intersecting objects and the terrain, once it gets close to the surface.

 |
Foam

 |

**
Foam tiling
**

 |
Set the tiling amount of the foam texture. Foam texture is located in
`
EngineAssets/Shading/WaterFoam.tif
`

 |
Foam

 |

**
Normals scale
**

 |
Controls the scale of the normals. Not to be confused with Detail normals.

 |
Default

 |

**
Rain ripples tiling
**

 |
Set the tiling amount for the rain ripples texture.

 |
Default

 |

**
Realtime reflection amount
**

 |
Control the reflection amount for the Realtime Reflection.

 |
Default

 |

**
Soft intersection factor
**

 |
Similar to the Foam soft intersection but for the base water surface.

 |
Default

 |

**
Tiling
**

 |
Changes the amount of texture map tilling on the water surface.

 |
Default

 |

**
Vertex wave scale
**

 |
Strength of vertex displaced wave animation.

 |
Default

 |

##
Shader Gen Params

Parameter

 |
Description

 |

**
Realtime Reflection
**

 |
Approximate realtime reflections.

 |

**
Water flow
**

 |
Enable water to flow along geometry UVs.

 |

**
Water flow map
**

 |
Enable water flow along a flow map.

 |

**
Water flow map strength
**

 |
Enables additional water flow strength controls, which requires the blue channel for strength.

 |

**
Sun specular
**

 |
Activate for water sunshine.

 |

**
Debug flow map
**

 |
Enable visualizing flow map.

 |

**
Foam
**

 |
Enables foam.

 |

##
Examples

The following images contain a base Watervolume material along with an environment map.

Most features are "moving" features aren't can't effectively be showcased through images but some tweaking and experiments should yield noticeable differences fairly easily.

##
Specular and Glossiness

[Image: /docs/static/attachments/35402195]
 |
[Image: /docs/static/attachments/35402197]
 |
[Image: /docs/static/attachments/35402198]
 |
[Image: /docs/static/attachments/35402199]
 |

Specular 0
 |
Specular 255 / Gloss 0
 |
Specular 255 / Gloss 128
 |
Specular 255 / Gloss 255
 |

##
Environment Map Reflection and Projection

[Image: /docs/static/attachments/35402200]
 |
[Image: /docs/static/attachments/35402201]
 |
[Image: /docs/static/attachments/35402202]
 |
[Image: /docs/static/attachments/35402204]
 |

Env reflection amount 2
 |
Env reflection amount 4
 |
Env projection scale 1
 |
Env projection scale 0
 |

##
Normals

[Image: /docs/static/attachments/35402205]
 |
[Image: /docs/static/attachments/35402206]
 |
[Image: /docs/static/attachments/35402207]
 |
[Image: /docs/static/attachments/35402208]
 |

Normals scale 0.1
 |
Normals scale 0.5 (default)
 |
Normals scale 1
 |
Normals scale 4
 |

##
Realtime Reflections

[Image: /docs/static/attachments/35402209]
 |
[Image: /docs/static/attachments/35402210]
 |
[Image: /docs/static/attachments/35402211]
 |
[Image: /docs/static/attachments/35402212]
 |

Realtime Reflection Off
 |
Realtime Reflection On
 |
Realtime reflection amount 2
 |
Realtime reflection amount 16
 |

##
Foam

[Image: /docs/static/attachments/35402213]
 |
[Image: /docs/static/attachments/35402214]
 |
[Image: /docs/static/attachments/35402215]
 |
[Image: /docs/static/attachments/35402216]
 |

Foam tiling 2 / Foam amount 8
 |
Foam Tiling 0.2
 |
Foam soft intersect 0.02
 |
Foam amount 0.25
 |

##
Decal

For the below example, a new material was created:
`
GameSDK\Materials\water\watervolumes\water_algae_surface.mtl
`

[Image: /docs/static/attachments/35402221]
 |
[Image: /docs/static/attachments/35402222]
 |
[Image: /docs/static/attachments/35402220]
 |
[Image: /docs/static/attachments/35402223]
 |

Decal Strength 0 - High
 |
Decal Strength 3 - High
 |
Decal Strength 0 - Low
 |
Decal Strength 0 - Low
 |
