# 03. Input and Game Controller

- Source: https://www.cryengine.com/docs/static/engines/cryengine-5/categories/23756813/pages/26874578
- Page ID: 26874578
- Breadcrumb: CRYENGINE Code Tutorials > C# Programming > Sydewinder > 03. Input and Game Controller
- Parent: Sydewinder

## Content

##
Overview

Interaction with the keyboard or a gamepad is the most important part in making a piece of software become a game. Listening to key-state changes is done by inserting an event handler method into the static
**
`
OnKey
`
**
 event of the
**
`
Input
`
**
 class.

The callback method receives an event argument which contains information if a certain key or button is triggered.

Chapters:

[Key States](#key-states)
[Controlling the Player](#controlling-the-player)
Related Content:

-
[C# API Reference](../../../CRYENGINE%20API%20Reference/C%23%20API%20Reference.md)

-
[C# Programming](../../C%23%20Programming.md)

##
Key States

The following list shows you the several states at which a key or button can be in:

-
**
KeyPressed:
**
 This event fires the first frame when the key is held down.

-
**
KeyDown:
**
 This event fires every frame when the key is held down.

-
**
KeyUp:
**
 This event fires when a key is released.

-
**
KeyChanged:
**
 This event is used for analog input devices which provides values between 0 and 1. This event is for example fired when the mouse-position has changed.

```

`
public virtual void OnAwake()
{
  // Hook on to Key input events.
  Input.OnKey += OnKey;
}

private void OnKey(InputEvent inputEvent)
{
  // Commands which are only allowed when game is currently running and not paused.
  if(State == GameState.Running)
  {
    // Fire primary player weapon.
    if((inputEvent.KeyPressed(KeyId.Space) || inputEvent.KeyPressed(KeyId.XI_A)) && Playership.Entity.Exists)
    {
      Playership.Fire();
    }
  }
}
`

```

##
Controlling the Player

Player control is achieved using the function
**
`
UpdateSpeed
`
**
 of the
**
`
Player
`
**
 class. The
player's
movement direction is determined by variables
**
`
xVal
`
**
 and
**
`
yVal
`
**
, which are initialized based on the values of an analog game controller input.

```

`
var xVal = Input.GetInputValue(KeyId.XI_ThumbLX);
var yVal = Input.GetInputValue(KeyId.XI_ThumbLY);

`

```

Next, the values can be forced to a maximum value when using a keyboard input or a digital game controller input.

```

`
if (Input.KeyDown(KeyId.Left) || Input.KeyDown(KeyId.XI_DPadLeft))
  xVal = -1f;
if (Input.KeyDown(KeyId.Right) || Input.KeyDown(KeyId.XI_DPadRight))
  xVal = 1f;
if (Input.KeyDown(KeyId.Down) || Input.KeyDown(KeyId.XI_DPadDown))
  yVal = -1f;
if (Input.KeyDown(KeyId.Up) || Input.KeyDown(KeyId.XI_DPadUp))
  yVal = 1f;

`

```

At this point, the x and y values represent the intended movement direction. In order to give an impression of inertia the values are multiplied with an acceleration constant and eventually applied to movement values (
**
`
_forwardSpeed
`
**
*

*
and
**
`
_upSpeed
`
**
). To prevent the player from flying outside of the screen boundaries the player's speed is clamped with
**
`
ClampSpeed
`
**
 before assigning it back to the
**
`
Speed
`
**
 variable. If the position is outside of a given boundary, then the speed values are changed so they will always move back to edge of the boundary.

```

`
// In case new position on screen is outside of bounds
ClampSpeed(ref _forwardSpeed, ref _upSpeed);

Speed = new Vector3(0, _forwardSpeed, _upSpeed);

`

```

The movement values are stored in the
**
`
Speed
`
**
 variable and are applied to the
**
`
PhysicsEntity
`
**
 by setting the
**
`
Velocity
`
**
 in the
**
`
Move
`
**
 method of the
**
`
DestroyableBase
`
**
 class. For further information about physics processing see the chapter
**
[Physics Interaction](06.%20Physics%20Interaction.md)
**
.
