# Implementing Hit Reaction

- Source: https://www.cryengine.com/docs/static/engines/cryengine-5/categories/23756813/pages/23306582
- Page ID: 23306582
- Breadcrumb: CRYENGINE Game Code > Miscellaneous Game Code > Game Characters > Hit and Death Reactions System > Implementing Hit Reaction
- Parent: Hit and Death Reactions System

## Content

### Overview

The default GameRules supplied with the SDK (Singleplayer and DeathMatch) can call Script Entity to notify of an hit generated by weapons, player, etc.

### OnHit Function

```
function NewEntity.Server:OnHit(hitInfo)
-- implementation of the hit reaction
end

function NewEntity.Client:OnHit(hitInfo)
-- implementation of the hit reaction for client only features
end
```

#### Hit Info Structure

**Parameter** | **Description**
--- | ---
**pos** | World position of the hit impact.
**dir** | Direction of the hit impact.
**normal** | Surface normal of the hit.
**backface** | Dot product of the normal.
**partId** | partId for the part on the physical object of the target.
**targetId** | EntityId of the target.
**shooterId** | EntityId of the shooter who created this hit.
**weaponId** | EntityId of the weapon used for the hit.
**projectileId** | EntityId of the projectile used for the hit.
**fmId** | Id of the firemode used for the hit.
**projectile** | Script table of the projectile.
**target** | Script table of the target.
**shooter** | Script table of the shooter.
**weapon** | Script table of the weapon.
**materialId** | Surface id where the hit collision happened.
**material** | Name of the surface.
**material_type** | Type of the surface.
**damage** | Damage value as calculated by the game rules.
**radius** | Radius affected by the hit.
**typeId** | Hit type of the hit.
**type** | Hit name of the hit.
**bulletType** | Type of bullet, if the hit type is a bullet.
**remote** | Indicates the hit is created on a different computer when it is true, used to propagate the hit from the server to the other clients.
**assistance** | Indicates that the player who shot the hit was using the controller aiming assistance.
